adult males within highness societies or
below every other female this three-week
old female cub will be more dominant
than even a 20 year old hyena male
that's part of this claim
I knew male hyenas had it tough but I
didn't realize it was quite that tough
on them I kind of feel sorry for them
it's hard to believe a helpless newborn
cub outranks even the oldest male in the
clan with a ranking system like this
finding a mate can't be easy for the
males
to try and understand more about the
relationship between males and females
I'm joining axel on one of his nighttime
research trips wild hyenas are
notoriously difficult to observe so
we're going to draw them in with sound
so what we are setting up right now is
something called a call up and using
these speakers in a we laptop we have
we've got recordings of lions and hyenas
at kill sites we play these at dusk and
hopefully that will attract some hyenas
to the carcass that we've placed under
that tree over there we just sit
completely still and there's absolutely
no chance of them coming to us because
that's where the sounds coming from will
kill the sound as soon as we see them
okay I trust you I think I'm in your
hands so let's do this let's do this
awesome let's go I'm excited and a
little bit afraid right now
the sound of a rival clan calling will
be the first thing to attract their
attention combined with their powerful
sense of smell the call-up could entice
hyenas from as far as 10 kilometers away
yeah after just 20 minutes the plan
begins to close in looks like three sets
of eyes just straight for the females
are the first to arrive on the scene she
is no she's okay
and leading the way is Ursula what's
unusual about hyenas is that the females
get to eat before the male's axel
suspects that any males in the area will
be keeping their distance for now one of
the first rules the males have to learn
is never come between a lady and her
lunch mm-hmm
thought I'd say this but hearing bones
crunching underneath an incredibly
powerful jewels of hyenas is a pretty
cool sound go figure
an hour passes before another solitary
hyena emerges is this the failure yes so
this individual right here he was the
last one of all da unis to come in yeah
because he's been very submissive bowing
his head every time females go by lying
very low
why is it that the males are so
incredibly timid and hesitant around
female hyenas what's that about
anatomically they're much smaller than
females they tend to be lighter weight
buyer in build and females tend to be
much more masculine much more muscular
they definitely have the weight and the
ability to overpower dominate else
you